FUNERAL CORTEGE OF HE JINGYUAN
LOYAL AND UPRIGHT GENERAL OF DAYIN
MEMORIAL OFFERING
SPIRIT TABLET OF HE JINGYUAN
GOVERNOR OF JIZHOU
-General He, may you rest in peace.
General He, may your spirit rest in peace.
General He…
rest in peace.
WEI QILIN, CRIMINAL OF DAYIN
Wei Qilin!
You treacherous traitor!
He tried to run. Served him right
when he went over the cliff
with his whole family!
He deserved it!
And now, even General He
has died on the battlefield,
-all because of that traitor!
-Beat him!
-Beat that traitor!
Burn him! Send him below to beg
the two generals' forgiveness.
What are you doing?
You are the woman general
who killed Prince Changxin, are you not?
-Yes.
-That is her.
-Yes, Mrs. Fan.
-It's her.
Mrs. Fan, why did you stop us?
We are burning that traitor!
He is not a traitor.
Mrs. Fan,
we respect you.
A woman who faced death
and slew Prince Changxin.
But why would you defend Wei Qilin,
that traitor?
-I'm--
-Why?
Why are you speaking for him?
He is not. He is not a traitor.
Today is the memorial
for Old General Xie and General He.
What you are doing now
is turning against the entire Jizhou
and Yanzhou army!
Forgive me, Generals.
-But that is not the truth.
-Enough of your nonsense!
That is enough!
-Marquis.
Let's go.
I haven't paid my respects
to the late General Xie.
I truly came to honor him.
If you defend that traitor,
then you have no right
to bow before General Xie!
The Xie army will never allow it!
-That is right!
-Never!
-Get out!
Form ranks!
Marquis, what are you…
-Marquis, she just--
-Xie army! Yanzhou army! Hear my command!
Kneel.
Generals,
may you rest in peace.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
JIZHOU YAMEN
Changyu.
Are you feeling better?
Commoner Fan Changyu
greets the Marquis.
What did you
just call me?
Marquis.
After all this time,
that is what you settled on?
One word, Marquis…
and suddenly we are strangers.
If the Marquis finds it too distant,
then since we share the same teacher,
you may call me Junior.
Marquis, this is a private residence
and my own chamber.
Please keep your distance.
I think I know
what troubles you.
But you should also know
there is nothing in this world
that could make us strangers.
And what if the matter
were serious enough
to cost you your command
of the Yanzhou army?
Whether I am fit to command an army
depends solely on my own ability.
It has nothing to do
with anyone or anything.
Including you.
So in your view,
everything in this world
is like matters of the army…
and in the end,
you alone decide everything.
It is late.
I still need to tend to my wounds.
Marquis, please leave.
‎JINGHE GATE
Chancellor Wei.
Grand Tutor.
Would you look at that.
I must be getting old.
My student has a mind of his own now.
I can hardly keep him in line.
This matter concerns
the military command of Jizhou.
We weighed it purely on merit in battle.
There was no personal agenda.
I hope you will not
take offense, Chancellor Wei.
If you truly feel your years
catching up with you,
perhaps you should follow Grand Tutor Tao
and bow out while you're ahead.
To this day, the court, the officials,
even His Majesty,
remember him with nothing but praise.
Far better than clinging
to office well past 70,
throwing around seniority
while unable to keep things in line.
Arrogant, is he?
We lost General He
in the Battle of Lucheng.
In his last words, he strongly recommended
Li Huai'an as the military administrator.
Now that the military command
of Jizhou has slipped from his grasp,
Wei Yan's arrogance
may not last much longer.
As long as Marquis Wu'an continues
to station his army in Lucheng,
control of the troops
will not pass into other hands.
And that
is precisely
where Wei Yan's confidence lies.
HALL OF LETTERS
Mother,
I'll never play the traitor game
with them again.
They are only children.
What do they know?
In this world, how many people
can truly tell loyalty from treachery,
or right from wrong?
Dinner is ready.
All right. Let's go eat.
Father. Mother.
What is all this really about?
Come in.
-Fan!
-Changyu!
Changyu!
-What is all this?
-It has been days now.
-General Fan looks well enough to drink.
-Exactly.
We have been waiting all this time.
We have been eager to come
celebrate with you. Have we not?
General Fan?
You flatter me too much.
In our eyes, you are a true general.
Killing Prince Changxin was no small feat.
Chongzhou will soon be ours.
After that, there'll be
no battles left to fight.
-That is right.
-Exactly.
-Come on. Drink up.
-Come. Changyu.
-Let me fill your cup.
-Fill it up.
Here you go.
Then I thank you all.
Cheers.
-Cheers!
-Drink!
Changyu!
-Drink…
-Changyu.
Lord Li is here asking to see you.
Let him in.
That may not be appropriate.
Changyu, you should go out and see him.
HALL OF LETTERS
Lord Li, what are you doing?
I am ashamed.
I have come today to beg your forgiveness.
My first offense.
When the rebels attacked the city,
you knocked me unconscious
because you feared I might act rashly.
Yet I didn't understand.
Instead, when you were gravely ill,
I spoke harshly to you.
That was unjust.
My second offense.
Our dispute led others
to misunderstand you,
damaging your reputation.
That was discourteous.
So I beg you
to strike me with these brambles.
Otherwise, I won't be able to face you
or General He again.
Please do not dwell on it.
General He treated me well.
I understand the position you were in.
-Please get up.
-I am ashamed.
I thought the northwest had made me wiser.
Yet I'm not as clear-headed as you.
You care too much to think straight.
You're too hard on yourself.
Besides, I was wrong to knock you out.
One fault cancels the other.
We are even now.
Get up.
Counting soldiers, choosing generals,
riding horses, going to war.
I will draw this one.
No peeking.
‎EASTERN OUTSKIRTS OF QINGPING COUNTY
I am drawing the highest card.
Look. Twin Heavens!
I got four pairs of candied hawthorns!
-Look at this. Did I win?
-I won!
-It is me. I won!
-Who won this round?
-Mr. Zhao, look.
Tell us who won.
Twin Heavens outrank the great houses.
Bao'er wins this round.
Come on.
-Again.
-Let's play another round.
-All right. That is enough.
-Thunder God! Boom, you're done!
I want the Empress card.
Come here.
Do not run.
It is one of ours.
THATCHED COTTAGE
Bao'er!
Ning!
Pretty Lady!
Mother, you are finally back!
I missed you so much!
I missed you too.
Ms. Yu.
You are back.
Changyu asked General Xie Qi
to escort me home.
She said no one in Lin'an
is to be left behind.
And I am
one of you.
Changyu really is something.
First she sent me,
Changning, and Bao'er home.
-Now she has brought back another.
-It is good you are back.
-That's one missing piece home.
-Yes, indeed.
TEN DAYS LATER
JIZHOU PREFECTURAL OFFICE
Why are you still here?
-What?
-Come on.
Speak.
Marquis Wu'an sent word
that military matters are pressing.
He cannot attend.
He said not to wait for him.
Eunuch, if the decree
is not announced soon,
we will miss the auspicious hour.
Very well. We will wait no longer.
Then,
we will announce the first two decrees.
HALL OF LETTERS
Where are we going? I have meat stewing.
Come on.
-Where were you?
-Everyone is here.
Finally.
-How long does it take to read the decree?
-Shh!
In those puppet plays,
it only takes a moment.
Why is it taking so long now?
I didn't even kneel this long
for my grandpa.
My legs are completely numb.
Get lost.
My stew…
HALL OF ARMS
Imperial decree!
All soldiers, receive the decree.
"By command of His Majesty.
The rebels of Chongzhou
have thrown the realm into chaos
and oppressed the people.
Governor He Jingyuan of Jizhou
upheld the realm,
slew the rebels,
and fell heroically in battle.
Moved by his loyalty,
His Majesty now posthumously grants him
the title Grand General Kuangzheng.
A state funeral shall be held
to honor his loyalty
and console his spirit.
Let this be proclaimed
throughout the realm so that all may know.
Zhenwei Commandant of Jizhou, Li Huai'an,
rendered great service
in defending the city.
He is hereby appointed
Military Administrator of Jizhou.
Two hundred taels of gold
and 800 taels of silver
are awarded to Li Huai'an and his troops."
We thank His Majesty.
"Jizhou soldier Fan Changyu."
Fan Changyu!
Where did Changyu go?
-I do not know.
-"Fan Changyu.
Jizhou soldier
Fan Changyu,
for slaying Prince Changxin
on the battlefield
and rendering great merit,
is hereby appointed Cavalry Captain,
rank fifth class.
One hundred taels of gold
and 500 taels of silver
-are awarded to Fan Changyu and her men.
-Fifth rank!
As the Jizhou army
cannot remain without leadership,
Military Administrator Li Huai'an
shall take command,
with Cavalry Captain Fan Changyu
serving as his deputy.
Together they shall oversee
the military authority of Jizhou
to steady the army's morale.
Let this decree be proclaimed.
All shall take heed."
Li Huai'an, receive the decree
on her behalf.
We thank His Majesty.
Congratulations,
Military Administrator Li.
Eunuch, you must be tired
from the journey.
If you do not mind,
please stay and rest for a while.
-This way, please.
-Very well.
-Congratulations!
Changyu is an official!
-This is fantastic!
-She made it!
Changyu is an official!
-Cavalry Captain!
-Five hundred taels!
I have served in the palace
for so many years,
yet I have never seen
such unruly soldiers.
Those rabble?
How on earth did they manage
to defeat Prince Changxin?
-Captain Fan is over there.
-Come on.
Let's go.
Captain Fan.
Before, we failed to recognize
your greatness. Forgive our offense.
-Forgive us.
What did you just call me?
-Captain Fan.
-Changyu!
Where is she?
Congratulations!
-Congratulations!
-You are an official now!
-Official? What kind of official?
Cavalry Captain. An imperial appointment.
-Fifth rank.
Since the dynasty's founding,
no woman has held such rank.
And that's not all.
Even the county magistrate
will have to bow three times
before speaking to you.
Just imagine the prestige.
Really?
-You are truly a woman general now.
-As long as we follow Changyu,
-we will be feasting every day.
-Exactly.
We will want for nothing!
But remember, all of this
is thanks to Changyu.
From today on, I'm no longer Jin Yuanbao.
My new name is Jin Triumph.
The three of them are changing theirs too.
-Man Legion.
-Right.
Man Banner and Man Valor.
That sounds great.
I am treating everyone to stewed meat!
-Come on. Give her a hand.
-Come on.
Sit down. Go sit over there.
All right.
Changyu, let me get you a bowl.
-Triumph, sit here.
-I will pour the wine.
Here.
-Pass it over.
-All right.
-Here.
-Thank you.
-Come on.
-All right.
Not too much. Two big bowls will do.
Take it over.
Here.
Everyone,
-enjoy yourselves.
-That is a generous portion.
-Please enjoy yourselves.
-Bottoms up.
Let me fill your cup.
Administrator Li,
you must be rather disappointed.
You thought that once General He passed,
the military command
would naturally fall
into the Li clan's hands.
Yet in the end, half of it slipped away.
Such a trivial matter
would never disappoint me.
What puzzles me is you.
The military command of Jizhou
is never small.
Why would you entrust it to a young woman
with neither experience nor backing?
Was it not you who filed
for her achievements to the court?
This is simply the outcome.
I credited her merits to protect her.
And I will continue to protect her.
My wife has no need
for protection from an outsider.
Your wife?
If I remember correctly,
Fan Changyu married Yan Zheng,
not you, Xie Zheng.
And even as Yan Zheng,
you two signed a divorce letter.
As things stand,
she has no marriage bond with you at all.
Marquis, why deceive yourself?
Administrator Li, do not forget
your betrothal to the Grand Princess.
A gentleman
doesn't play both sides.
Xie Qi has safely escorted
Yu Qianqian back.
As for Grand Tutor Tao,
he insists on staying.
No matter what we say,
he refuses to return to office.
If he does not go back,
His Majesty may not take kindly to it.
That's no matter.
His Majesty has always been one
to sway with the wind,
clinging to whoever holds power.
There's something else.
The court giving Mrs. Fan
half the military command
is likely the result of the conflict
between Wei Yan and Li Xing.
For years, they've kept
each other in check.
In the end, they simply let go.
To them, Fan Changyu poses no threat.
Better she holds command than I do.
Li Huai'an thought he was being clever,
yet ended up a pawn for both sides.
Those two old foxes.
They are scheming so loudly,
we can hear it all the way in Jizhou.
At this rate,
Fan Changyu is like a child carrying gold
through a bustling market.
Trouble will find her soon.
As long as I am here,
no one will trouble her.
What should we do now?
Split the command in two,
and Mrs. Fan gains nothing.
She'll end up taking the fall.
Grand Tutor Li will surely be displeased.
Grandfather intends to use her
to disrupt Wei Yan's plans.
But it doesn't matter.
We can simply play along.
I can be the one
supporting Fan Changyu too.
Good heavens!
Cavalry Captain.
One hundred taels of gold
and 500 taels of silver!
Ancestors above!
That'll last Fan Changyu
and Fan Changning a lifetime.
That is nothing.
Captain Fan now commands
half the forces of Jizhou.
Xie Qi,
when you return,
please pass a message to Changyu.
Even if she has become a captain,
there's still a saying,
"Don't bite the husband that fed you."
Husband? It's
"Don't bite the hand that fed you."
Stop interrupting.
When Changyu was at her lowest,
it was Yan Zheng who stood by her side.
He was even taken away
by the draft for her sake.
That kind of bond is not ordinary.
Don't let her turn into one
of those women who climb the ladder
and pull it up behind them.
Women? It's normally men who did that.
Why do you keep butting in,
like a water ladle
scooping again and again?
If you say something wrong,
should people not correct you?
Mr. and Mrs. Zhao,
do not worry.
Changyu is not that kind of person.
I will pass your message to Captain Fan
and to our Mar…
our best comrade.
Tell Yan Zheng to stay safe
and come home soon.
A family should all be under one roof.
That is right. All the people of Lin'an
are waiting for him.
Your words will be delivered.
THE SEA OF LEARNING HAS NO END
I never thought Your Highness
would go so far
for Luyuan Academy's headmaster.
It seems our agreement
was also for his sake.
Lingering in Jizhou
instead of returning to the capital…
Got your eye on another man's wife?
Captain Fan's marriage
to Marquis Wu'an was a sham.
She and I are comrades-in-arms.
Nothing improper between us.
Headmaster and I once fought side by side.
Our bond is simply
that of upright comrades.
Captain Fan.
If your intentions are so proper,
why did you panic like that?
You care a lot for a comrade.
Your Highness jests at my expense.
-Mr. Gongsun.
-A joke told twice loses its charm.
I didn't expect Your Highness
and Administrator Li here.
It seems I have intruded.
Wenkan.
I've changed your medicine.
Take it easy and get some rest.
I have a few things to take care of,
so I'll be going now.
Do not move. Count to five.
Five, four, three, two, one.
Your Highness, I…
She does not wish to see you.
Your Highness.
Please wait.
-Please hear me out.
-Keep your distance from Her Highness!
Your Highness, I just want to say…
-Shut the door.
-Please let me explain.
Your Highness!
Are you leaving?
I am not leaving.
Watch your foot.
-Are you hurt? Let me see.
-No, no.
I am fine.
You lied to me again.
I only wanted to talk to you.
Tell me honestly.
Do you have feelings for Li--
Not in the slightest!
I have no interest in him.
And none in you either.
You came all this way just to ask that?
Is there anything else?
Actually, I…
Headmaster Gongsun,
if you truly have no feelings for me,
then stop coming to see me.
THE SEA OF LEARNING HAS NO END
This foolish mouth…
Why can't I get the words out?
Changyu, go!
Changyu, why are you so distracted today?
Another round?
Come.
Forgive me, Lord Li.
Captain Fan,
I came to discuss something with you.
That live-in husband was bad enough.
This Li Menkan is even worse.
Please come back another day.
I am not in the mood today.
You've been made captain. You must learn
the terrain and military situation.
Everything's marked on the map.
Hope it helps.
If anything is unclear,
I would gladly explain.
Some people love swooping in
when there's an opening.
Looks like that live-in husband
is in trouble.
In that case,
thank you, Lord Li.
If you don't want to be here, leave.
No, no. We cannot leave.
If we left,
who would protect
our captain's reputation?
-Well written!
-Is dinner ready?
That line is great.
It is getting late.
Let's stop here for today.
I've been busy lately.
I may not be able to join you
for a few days.
However, I have invited
the best instructor in Jizhou
to serve as your advisor.
You will soon grow
into the role of captain.
Then thank you, Lord Li.
Among the Enemy Stratagems
is one called "Take the Sheep in Passing".
When an opportunity appears, seize it.
Even the slightest advantage
must not be overlooked.
I know this one.
It means if I see the enemy's sheep,
I grab it and cook myself
a nice pot of mutton soup.
That is… not entirely wrong.
And this one. I know this too.
"Borrow a Knife to Kill."
It means if my weapon
gets knocked away in battle,
I borrow someone else's weapon
and chop the enemy down.
It means you do not have to act yourself.
Instead, you provoke others
to eliminate the enemy for you.
That way, you preserve your own strength.
I see.
I definitely know this one.
"Watch the Fire from Across the River."
Back in my town,
rich families could watch fireworks
from right up close.
But poor kids like us
had to stand far away,
very far away,
to watch them.
It… It is not about fireworks.
It is… Let's move on.
"Point at the Berry and Curse the Ghost."
What does it mean?
It is actually "Point at the Mulberry
and Curse the Locust."
A man of upright character…
-Sir, what is--
-Changyu.
Sir.
How did the lesson go?
Captain Fan is remarkably quick-witted.
One example is all she needs.
A true talent.
You taught well, sir.
Not at all, not at all.
That will be all for today.
-I will take my leave.
-I have learned Sun Zi's Art of War.
Can you teach me some more
from Sun Zi's ancestors tomorrow?
Farewell.
Sir!
Find another teacher as soon as possible.
Understood.
Mr. Liu, thank you for coming.
Every one of my pupils
has become a distinguished general.
You may rest assured.
There is nothing to worry about.
Please.
This way.
HALL OF LETTERS
Mr. Liu, you…
She barely recognizes the characters.
You had better find someone more capable.
-Mr. Liu, please wait.
-I truly cannot teach her.
Farewell.
THE SEA OF LEARNING HAS NO END
-My lord, he--
-Find another.
Please rest assured.
Anyone willing to learn should be taught.
Sir…
-Sir?
-I would rather starve
-than attempt to teach that.
-Wait!
Anyone can be taught.
I am inadequate.
-Please have mercy
-Get up.
-and spare my life!
-Please get up.
‎HALL OF ARMS
SEEKING A KIND, PATIENT, STRONG
MILITARY TUTOR. THREE TAELS FOR TWO HOURS
The student you seek to teach…
Is it Captain Fan?
It is.
Sir!
My lord,
her reputation has spread
throughout the city.
‎JIZHOU PREFECTURAL OFFICE
Three taels an hour, and still no takers.
Forget it.
I will teach her myself.
‎What?
THREE DAYS LATER
What happened?
Captain Fan did this.
Both of you are still injured,
yet you are sparring again?
All internal injuries.
It is getting late.
Help me up. I still need to go teach her.
My lord, please rest.
Stop teaching Captain Fan.
Studying military strategy
must be done step by step. Right?
Studying strategy?
Never thought
teaching could go so wrong.
Lord Li.
Changyu.
Lord Li, no, please. Please stay seated.
Lord Li, I truly owe you an apology.
Perhaps I should just study on my own.
You see, my adoptive father
is quite formidable.
He even wanted to take me as his disciple.
Do you think he is getting old
and his eyesight is failing?
You must possess a rare kind of insight.
Grand Tutor Tao must have seen
that very quality in you.
It is something I cannot compare to.
I think so too.
Maybe I should just
ask him to teach me instead.
Spare the old man. Do not trouble him.
Why can I not get
any of this into my head?
Looks like I am not cut out for studying.
I left some notes in red
between the paragraphs.
Read them when you have time.
When storms darken the sky
The rooster still crows
Having seen the graceful one
How could I not rejoice?
These lines speak
of storm and turmoil, rain pouring,
the world unsettled.
Yet in the midst of all that confusion,
you lift your eyes,
and suddenly, there she is.
Like clouds parting,
a shaft of light falls over you.
Warm. Bright.
And joy rises from somewhere inside.
Why is it that when Yan Zheng teaches me,
I remember everything?
I wonder what he is doing now.
‎NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
‎IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang